---
x-trestle-set-params:
  ac-20.3_prm_1:
    values:
x-trestle-global:
  sort-id: ac-20.03
---

# ac-20.3 - \[Access Control\] Non-organizationally Owned Systems / Components / Devices

## Control Statement

The organization {{ insert: param, ac-20.3_prm_1 }} the use of non-organizationally owned information systems, system components, or devices to process, store, or transmit organizational information.

## Control Objective

Determine if the organization restricts or prohibits the use of non-organizationally owned information systems, system components, or devices to process, store, or transmit organizational information.

## Control guidance

Non-organizationally owned devices include devices owned by other organizations (e.g., federal/state agencies, contractors) and personally owned devices. There are risks to using non-organizationally owned devices. In some cases, the risk is sufficiently high as to prohibit such use. In other cases, it may be such that the use of non-organizationally owned devices is allowed but restricted in some way. Restrictions include, for example: (i) requiring the implementation of organization-approved security controls prior to authorizing such connections; (ii) limiting access to certain types of information, services, or applications; (iii) using virtualization techniques to limit processing and storage activities to servers or other system components provisioned by the organization; and (iv) agreeing to terms and conditions for usage. For personally owned devices, organizations consult with the Office of the General Counsel regarding legal issues associated with using such devices in operational environments, including, for example, requirements for conducting forensic analyses during investigations after an incident.
