---
x-trestle-global:
  sort-id: sc-22
---

# sc-22 - \[System and Communications Protection\] Architecture and Provisioning for Name / Address Resolution Service

## Control Statement

The information systems that collectively provide name/address resolution service for an organization are fault-tolerant and implement internal/external role separation.

## Control Objective

Determine if the information systems that collectively provide name/address resolution service for an organization:

- \[SC-22[1]\] are fault tolerant; and

- \[SC-22[2]\] implement internal/external role separation.

## Control guidance

Information systems that provide name and address resolution services include, for example, domain name system (DNS) servers. To eliminate single points of failure and to enhance redundancy, organizations employ at least two authoritative domain name system servers, one configured as the primary server and the other configured as the secondary server. Additionally, organizations typically deploy the servers in two geographically separated network subnetworks (i.e., not located in the same physical facility). For role separation, DNS servers with internal roles only process name and address resolution requests from within organizations (i.e., from internal clients). DNS servers with external roles only process name and address resolution information requests from clients external to organizations (i.e., on external networks including the Internet). Organizations specify clients that can access authoritative DNS servers in particular roles (e.g., by address ranges, explicit lists).
