---
x-trestle-set-params:
  # You may set values for parameters in the assembled SSP by adding
  #
  # ssp-values:
  #   - value 1
  #   - value 2
  #
  # below a section of values:
  # The values list refers to the values in the resolved profile catalog, and the ssp-values represent new values
  # to be placed in SetParameters of the SSP.
  #
  sa-11_prm_1:
    values:
  sa-11_prm_2:
    values:
x-trestle-evidence:
  named-evidence: location
x-trestle-dependent-on:
  - control-id:
    profile:
reviewed-by:
  - named:
    date:
x-trestle-fedramp-props:
  control-origination:
    - Service provider Corporate
    - Service provider System Specific
    - Service Provider Hybrid (Corporate and System Specific)
    - Configured by Customer (Customer System Specific)
    - Provided by Customer (Customer System Specific)
    - Shared (Service Provider and Customer Responsibility)
    - Inherited from pre-existing FedRAMP Authorization [Enter text here], Date of
      Authorization
  implementation-status:
    - Implemented
    - Partially implemented
    - Planned
    - Alternative implementation
    - Not Applicable
  responsible-roles:
x-trestle-global:
  profile:
    title: FedRAMP Rev 4 Moderate Baseline
    href: trestle://profiles/fedramp_rev4_moderate/profile.json
  sort-id: sa-11
---

# sa-11 - \[System and Services Acquisition\] Developer Security Testing and Evaluation

## Control Statement

The organization requires the developer of the information system, system component, or information system service to:

- \[a.\] Create and implement a security assessment plan;

- \[b.\] Perform [unit; integration; system; regression] testing/evaluation at [organization-defined depth and coverage];

- \[c.\] Produce evidence of the execution of the security assessment plan and the results of the security testing/evaluation;

- \[d.\] Implement a verifiable flaw remediation process; and

- \[e.\] Correct flaws identified during security testing/evaluation.

## Control Objective

Determine if the organization:

- \[SA-11(a)\] requires the developer of the information system, system component, or information system service to create and implement a security plan;

- \[SA-11(b)\]

  - \[SA-11(b)[1]\] defines the depth of testing/evaluation to be performed by the developer of the information system, system component, or information system service;
  - \[SA-11(b)[2]\] defines the coverage of testing/evaluation to be performed by the developer of the information system, system component, or information system service;
  - \[SA-11(b)[3]\] requires the developer of the information system, system component, or information system service to perform one or more of the following testing/evaluation at the organization-defined depth and coverage:

    - \[SA-11(b)[3][a]\] unit testing/evaluation;
    - \[SA-11(b)[3][b]\] integration testing/evaluation;
    - \[SA-11(b)[3][c]\] system testing/evaluation; and/or
    - \[SA-11(b)[3][d]\] regression testing/evaluation;

- \[SA-11(c)\] requires the developer of the information system, system component, or information system service to produce evidence of:

  - \[SA-11(c)[1]\] the execution of the security assessment plan;
  - \[SA-11(c)[2]\] the results of the security testing/evaluation;

- \[SA-11(d)\] requires the developer of the information system, system component, or information system service to implement a verifiable flaw remediation process; and

- \[SA-11(e)\] requires the developer of the information system, system component, or information system service to correct flaws identified during security testing/evaluation.

## Control guidance

Developmental security testing/evaluation occurs at all post-design phases of the system development life cycle. Such testing/evaluation confirms that the required security controls are implemented correctly, operating as intended, enforcing the desired security policy, and meeting established security requirements. Security properties of information systems may be affected by the interconnection of system components or changes to those components. These interconnections or changes (e.g., upgrading or replacing applications and operating systems) may adversely affect previously implemented security controls. This control provides additional types of security testing/evaluation that developers can conduct to reduce or eliminate potential flaws. Testing custom software applications may require approaches such as static analysis, dynamic analysis, binary analysis, or a hybrid of the three approaches. Developers can employ these analysis approaches in a variety of tools (e.g., web-based application scanners, static analysis tools, binary analyzers) and in source code reviews. Security assessment plans provide the specific activities that developers plan to carry out including the types of analyses, testing, evaluation, and reviews of software and firmware components, the degree of rigor to be applied, and the types of artifacts produced during those processes. The depth of security testing/evaluation refers to the rigor and level of detail associated with the assessment process (e.g., black box, gray box, or white box testing). The coverage of security testing/evaluation refers to the scope (i.e., number and type) of the artifacts included in the assessment process. Contracts specify the acceptance criteria for security assessment plans, flaw remediation processes, and the evidence that the plans/processes have been diligently applied. Methods for reviewing and protecting assessment plans, evidence, and documentation are commensurate with the security category or classification level of the information system. Contracts may specify documentation protection requirements.

______________________________________________________________________

## What is the solution and how is it implemented?

<!-- For implementation status enter one of: implemented, partial, planned, alternative, not-applicable -->

<!-- Note that the list of rules under ### Rules: is read-only and changes will not be captured after assembly to JSON -->

### This System

<!-- Add implementation prose for the main This System component for control: sa-11 -->

#### Implementation Status: planned

______________________________________________________________________
