---
x-trestle-evidence:
  named-evidence: location
x-trestle-dependent-on:
  - control-id:
    profile:
reviewed-by:
  - named:
    date:
x-trestle-fedramp-props:
  control-origination:
    - Service provider Corporate
    - Service provider System Specific
    - Service Provider Hybrid (Corporate and System Specific)
    - Configured by Customer (Customer System Specific)
    - Provided by Customer (Customer System Specific)
    - Shared (Service Provider and Customer Responsibility)
    - Inherited from pre-existing FedRAMP Authorization [Enter text here], Date of
      Authorization
  implementation-status:
    - Implemented
    - Partially implemented
    - Planned
    - Alternative implementation
    - Not Applicable
  responsible-roles:
x-trestle-global:
  profile:
    title: FedRAMP Rev 4 Moderate Baseline
    href: trestle://profiles/fedramp_rev4_moderate/profile.json
  sort-id: sa-11.08
---

# sa-11.8 - \[System and Services Acquisition\] Dynamic Code Analysis

## Control Statement

The organization requires the developer of the information system, system component, or information system service to employ dynamic code analysis tools to identify common flaws and document the results of the analysis.

## Control Objective

Determine if the organization requires the developer of the information system, system component, or information system service to employ dynamic code analysis tools to identify common flaws and document the results of the analysis.

## Control guidance

Dynamic code analysis provides run-time verification of software programs, using tools capable of monitoring programs for memory corruption, user privilege issues, and other potential security problems. Dynamic code analysis employs run-time tools to help to ensure that security functionality performs in the manner in which it was designed. A specialized type of dynamic analysis, known as fuzz testing, induces program failures by deliberately introducing malformed or random data into software programs. Fuzz testing strategies derive from the intended use of applications and the functional and design specifications for the applications. To understand the scope of dynamic code analysis and hence the assurance provided, organizations may also consider conducting code coverage analysis (checking the degree to which the code has been tested using metrics such as percent of subroutines tested or percent of program statements called during execution of the test suite) and/or concordance analysis (checking for words that are out of place in software code such as non-English language words or derogatory terms).

______________________________________________________________________

## What is the solution and how is it implemented?

<!-- For implementation status enter one of: implemented, partial, planned, alternative, not-applicable -->

<!-- Note that the list of rules under ### Rules: is read-only and changes will not be captured after assembly to JSON -->

### This System

<!-- Add implementation prose for the main This System component for control: sa-11.8 -->

#### Implementation Status: planned

______________________________________________________________________
