---
x-trestle-set-params:
  sa-12.1_prm_1:
    values:
x-trestle-global:
  sort-id: sa-12.01
---

# sa-12.1 - \[System and Services Acquisition\] Acquisition Strategies / Tools / Methods

## Control Statement

The organization employs {{ insert: param, sa-12.1_prm_1 }} for the purchase of the information system, system component, or information system service from suppliers.

## Control Objective

Determine if the organization:

- \[SA-12(1)[1]\] defines the following to be employed for the purchase of the information system, system component, or information system service from suppliers:

  - \[SA-12(1)[1][a]\] tailored acquisition strategies;
  - \[SA-12(1)[1][b]\] contract tools;
  - \[SA-12(1)[1][c]\] procurement methods; and

- \[SA-12(1)[2]\] employs organization-defined tailored acquisition strategies, contract tools, and procurement methods for the purchase of the information system, system component, or information system service from suppliers.

## Control guidance

The use of acquisition and procurement processes by organizations early in the system development life cycle provides an important vehicle to protect the supply chain. Organizations use available all-source intelligence analysis to inform the tailoring of acquisition strategies, tools, and methods. There are a number of different tools and techniques available (e.g., obscuring the end use of an information system or system component, using blind or filtered buys). Organizations also consider creating incentives for suppliers who: (i) implement required security safeguards; (ii) promote transparency into their organizational processes and security practices; (iii) provide additional vetting of the processes and security practices of subordinate suppliers, critical information system components, and services; (iv) restrict purchases from specific suppliers or countries; and (v) provide contract language regarding the prohibition of tainted or counterfeit components. In addition, organizations consider minimizing the time between purchase decisions and required delivery to limit opportunities for adversaries to corrupt information system components or products. Finally, organizations can use trusted/controlled distribution, delivery, and warehousing options to reduce supply chain risk (e.g., requiring tamper-evident packaging of information system components during shipping and warehousing).
