---
x-trestle-global:
  sort-id: pm-11
---

# pm-11 - \[Program Management\] Mission/business Process Definition

## Control Statement

The organization:

- \[a.\] Defines mission/business processes with consideration for information security and the resulting risk to organizational operations, organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation; and

- \[b.\] Determines information protection needs arising from the defined mission/business processes and revises the processes as necessary, until achievable protection needs are obtained.

## Control Objective

Determine if the organization:

- \[PM-11(a)\] defines mission/business processes with consideration for information security and the resulting risk to organizational operations, organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation;

- \[PM-11(b)\]

  - \[PM-11(b)[1]\] determines information protection needs arising from the defined mission/business process; and
  - \[PM-11(b)[2]\] revises the processes as necessary until achievable protection needs are obtained.

## Control guidance

Information protection needs are technology-independent, required capabilities to counter threats to organizations, individuals, or the Nation through the compromise of information (i.e., loss of confidentiality, integrity, or availability). Information protection needs are derived from the mission/business needs defined by the organization, the mission/business processes selected to meet the stated needs, and the organizational risk management strategy. Information protection needs determine the required security controls for the organization and the associated information systems supporting the mission/business processes. Inherent in defining an organization’s information protection needs is an understanding of the level of adverse impact that could result if a compromise of information occurs. The security categorization process is used to make such potential impact determinations. Mission/business process definitions and associated information protection requirements are documented by the organization in accordance with organizational policy and procedure.
