---
x-trestle-evidence:
  named-evidence: location
x-trestle-dependent-on:
  - control-id:
    profile:
reviewed-by:
  - named:
    date:
x-trestle-fedramp-props:
  control-origination:
    - Service provider Corporate
    - Service provider System Specific
    - Service Provider Hybrid (Corporate and System Specific)
    - Configured by Customer (Customer System Specific)
    - Provided by Customer (Customer System Specific)
    - Shared (Service Provider and Customer Responsibility)
    - Inherited from pre-existing FedRAMP Authorization [Enter text here], Date of
      Authorization
  implementation-status:
    - Implemented
    - Partially implemented
    - Planned
    - Alternative implementation
    - Not Applicable
  responsible-roles:
x-trestle-global:
  profile:
    title: FedRAMP Rev 4 Moderate Baseline
    href: trestle://profiles/fedramp_rev4_moderate/profile.json
  sort-id: ac-19
---

# ac-19 - \[Access Control\] Access Control for Mobile Devices

## Control Statement

The organization:

- \[a.\] Establishes usage restrictions, configuration requirements, connection requirements, and implementation guidance for organization-controlled mobile devices; and

- \[b.\] Authorizes the connection of mobile devices to organizational information systems.

## Control Objective

Determine if the organization:

- \[AC-19(a)\] establishes for organization-controlled mobile devices:

  - \[AC-19(a)[1]\] usage restrictions;
  - \[AC-19(a)[2]\] configuration/connection requirement;
  - \[AC-19(a)[3]\] implementation guidance; and

- \[AC-19(b)\] authorizes the connection of mobile devices to organizational information systems.

## Control guidance

A mobile device is a computing device that: (i) has a small form factor such that it can easily be carried by a single individual; (ii) is designed to operate without a physical connection (e.g., wirelessly transmit or receive information); (iii) possesses local, non-removable or removable data storage; and (iv) includes a self-contained power source. Mobile devices may also include voice communication capabilities, on-board sensors that allow the device to capture information, and/or built-in features for synchronizing local data with remote locations. Examples include smart phones, E-readers, and tablets. Mobile devices are typically associated with a single individual and the device is usually in close proximity to the individual; however, the degree of proximity can vary depending upon on the form factor and size of the device. The processing, storage, and transmission capability of the mobile device may be comparable to or merely a subset of desktop systems, depending upon the nature and intended purpose of the device. Due to the large variety of mobile devices with different technical characteristics and capabilities, organizational restrictions may vary for the different classes/types of such devices. Usage restrictions and specific implementation guidance for mobile devices include, for example, configuration management, device identification and authentication, implementation of mandatory protective software (e.g., malicious code detection, firewall), scanning devices for malicious code, updating virus protection software, scanning for critical software updates and patches, conducting primary operating system (and possibly other resident software) integrity checks, and disabling unnecessary hardware (e.g., wireless, infrared). Organizations are cautioned that the need to provide adequate security for mobile devices goes beyond the requirements in this control. Many safeguards and countermeasures for mobile devices are reflected in other security controls in the catalog allocated in the initial control baselines as starting points for the development of security plans and overlays using the tailoring process. There may also be some degree of overlap in the requirements articulated by the security controls within the different families of controls. AC-20 addresses mobile devices that are not organization-controlled.

______________________________________________________________________

## What is the solution and how is it implemented?

<!-- For implementation status enter one of: implemented, partial, planned, alternative, not-applicable -->

<!-- Note that the list of rules under ### Rules: is read-only and changes will not be captured after assembly to JSON -->

### This System

<!-- Add implementation prose for the main This System component for control: ac-19 -->

#### Implementation Status: planned

______________________________________________________________________
