---
x-trestle-set-params:
  # You may set values for parameters in the assembled SSP by adding
  #
  # ssp-values:
  #   - value 1
  #   - value 2
  #
  # below a section of values:
  # The values list refers to the values in the resolved profile catalog, and the ssp-values represent new values
  # to be placed in SetParameters of the SSP.
  #
  ac-14_prm_1:
    values:
x-trestle-evidence:
  named-evidence: location
x-trestle-dependent-on:
  - control-id:
    profile:
reviewed-by:
  - named:
    date:
x-trestle-fedramp-props:
  control-origination:
    - Service provider Corporate
    - Service provider System Specific
    - Service Provider Hybrid (Corporate and System Specific)
    - Configured by Customer (Customer System Specific)
    - Provided by Customer (Customer System Specific)
    - Shared (Service Provider and Customer Responsibility)
    - Inherited from pre-existing FedRAMP Authorization [Enter text here], Date of
      Authorization
  implementation-status:
    - Implemented
    - Partially implemented
    - Planned
    - Alternative implementation
    - Not Applicable
  responsible-roles:
x-trestle-global:
  profile:
    title: FedRAMP Rev 4 Moderate Baseline
    href: trestle://profiles/fedramp_rev4_moderate/profile.json
  sort-id: ac-14
---

# ac-14 - \[Access Control\] Permitted Actions Without Identification or Authentication

## Control Statement

The organization:

- \[a.\] Identifies [organization-defined user actions] that can be performed on the information system without identification or authentication consistent with organizational missions/business functions; and

- \[b.\] Documents and provides supporting rationale in the security plan for the information system, user actions not requiring identification or authentication.

## Control Objective

Determine if the organization:

- \[AC-14(a)\]

  - \[AC-14(a)[1]\] defines user actions that can be performed on the information system without identification or authentication consistent with organizational missions/business functions;
  - \[AC-14(a)[2]\] identifies organization-defined user actions that can be performed on the information system without identification or authentication consistent with organizational missions/business functions; and

- \[AC-14(b)\] documents and provides supporting rationale in the security plan for the information system, user actions not requiring identification or authentication.

## Control guidance

This control addresses situations in which organizations determine that no identification or authentication is required in organizational information systems. Organizations may allow a limited number of user actions without identification or authentication including, for example, when individuals access public websites or other publicly accessible federal information systems, when individuals use mobile phones to receive calls, or when facsimiles are received. Organizations also identify actions that normally require identification or authentication but may under certain circumstances (e.g., emergencies), allow identification or authentication mechanisms to be bypassed. Such bypasses may occur, for example, via a software-readable physical switch that commands bypass of the logon functionality and is protected from accidental or unmonitored use. This control does not apply to situations where identification and authentication have already occurred and are not repeated, but rather to situations where identification and authentication have not yet occurred. Organizations may decide that there are no user actions that can be performed on organizational information systems without identification and authentication and thus, the values for assignment statements can be none.

______________________________________________________________________

## What is the solution and how is it implemented?

<!-- For implementation status enter one of: implemented, partial, planned, alternative, not-applicable -->

<!-- Note that the list of rules under ### Rules: is read-only and changes will not be captured after assembly to JSON -->

### This System

<!-- Add implementation prose for the main This System component for control: ac-14 -->

#### Implementation Status: planned

______________________________________________________________________
