---
sort-id: ac-12
x-trestle-evidence:
  named-evidence: location
x-trestle-dependent-on:
  - control-id:
    profile:
reviewed-by:
  - named:
    date:
x-trestle-fedramp-props:
  control-origination:
    - Service provider Corporate
    - Service provider System Specific
    - Service Provider Hybrid (Corporate and System Specific)
    - Configured by Customer (Customer System Specific)
    - Provided by Customer (Customer System Specific)
    - Shared (Service Provider and Customer Responsibility)
    - Inherited from pre-existing FedRAMP Authorization [Enter text here], Date of
      Authorization
  implementation-status:
    - Implemented
    - Partially implemented
    - Planned
    - Alternative implementation
    - Not Applicable
  responsible-roles:
---

# ac-12 - \[Access Control\] Session Termination

## Control Statement

The information system automatically terminates a user session after organization-defined conditions or trigger events requiring session disconnect.

## Control Objective

Determine if:

- \[AC-12[1]\] the organization defines conditions or trigger events requiring session disconnect; and

- \[AC-12[2]\] the information system automatically terminates a user session after organization-defined conditions or trigger events requiring session disconnect occurs.

## Control guidance

This control addresses the termination of user-initiated logical sessions in contrast to SC-10 which addresses the termination of network connections that are associated with communications sessions (i.e., network disconnect). A logical session (for local, network, and remote access) is initiated whenever a user (or process acting on behalf of a user) accesses an organizational information system. Such user sessions can be terminated (and thus terminate user access) without terminating network sessions. Session termination terminates all processes associated with a user’s logical session except those processes that are specifically created by the user (i.e., session owner) to continue after the session is terminated. Conditions or trigger events requiring automatic session termination can include, for example, organization-defined periods of user inactivity, targeted responses to certain types of incidents, time-of-day restrictions on information system use.

______________________________________________________________________

## What is the solution and how is it implemented?

Add control implementation description here for control ac-12

### Implementation Status: planned

______________________________________________________________________
