---
sort-id: sc-12
x-trestle-evidence:
  named-evidence: location
x-trestle-dependent-on:
  - control-id:
    profile:
reviewed-by:
  - named:
    date:
x-trestle-fedramp-props:
  control-origination:
    - Service provider Corporate
    - Service provider System Specific
    - Service Provider Hybrid (Corporate and System Specific)
    - Configured by Customer (Customer System Specific)
    - Provided by Customer (Customer System Specific)
    - Shared (Service Provider and Customer Responsibility)
    - Inherited from pre-existing FedRAMP Authorization [Enter text here], Date of
      Authorization
  implementation-status:
    - Implemented
    - Partially implemented
    - Planned
    - Alternative implementation
    - Not Applicable
  responsible-roles:
---

# sc-12 - \[System and Communications Protection\] Cryptographic Key Establishment and Management

## Control Statement

The organization establishes and manages cryptographic keys for required cryptography employed within the information system in accordance with organization-defined requirements for key generation, distribution, storage, access, and destruction.

## Control Objective

Determine if the organization:

- \[SC-12[1]\] defines requirements for cryptographic key:

  - \[SC-12[1][a]\] generation;
  - \[SC-12[1][b]\] distribution;
  - \[SC-12[1][c]\] storage;
  - \[SC-12[1][d]\] access;
  - \[SC-12[1][e]\] destruction; and

- \[SC-12[2]\] establishes and manages cryptographic keys for required cryptography employed within the information system in accordance with organization-defined requirements for key generation, distribution, storage, access, and destruction.

## Control guidance

Cryptographic key management and establishment can be performed using manual procedures or automated mechanisms with supporting manual procedures. Organizations define key management requirements in accordance with applicable federal laws, Executive Orders, directives, regulations, policies, standards, and guidance, specifying appropriate options, levels, and parameters. Organizations manage trust stores to ensure that only approved trust anchors are in such trust stores. This includes certificates with visibility external to organizational information systems and certificates related to the internal operations of systems.
Federally approved and validated cryptography.

______________________________________________________________________

## What is the solution and how is it implemented?

Add control implementation description here for control sc-12

### Implementation Status: planned

______________________________________________________________________
