---
sort-id: sc-28.01
x-trestle-evidence:
  named-evidence: location
x-trestle-dependent-on:
  - control-id:
    profile:
reviewed-by:
  - named:
    date:
x-trestle-fedramp-props:
  control-origination:
    - Service provider Corporate
    - Service provider System Specific
    - Service Provider Hybrid (Corporate and System Specific)
    - Configured by Customer (Customer System Specific)
    - Provided by Customer (Customer System Specific)
    - Shared (Service Provider and Customer Responsibility)
    - Inherited from pre-existing FedRAMP Authorization [Enter text here], Date of
      Authorization
  implementation-status:
    - Implemented
    - Partially implemented
    - Planned
    - Alternative implementation
    - Not Applicable
  responsible-roles:
---

# sc-28.1 - \[System and Communications Protection\] Cryptographic Protection

## Control Statement

The information system implements cryptographic mechanisms to prevent unauthorized disclosure and modification of organization-defined information on organization-defined information system components.

## Control Objective

Determine if:

- \[SC-28(1)[1]\] the organization defines information requiring cryptographic protection;

- \[SC-28(1)[2]\] the organization defines information system components with organization-defined information requiring cryptographic protection; and

- \[SC-28(1)[3]\] the information system employs cryptographic mechanisms to prevent unauthorized disclosure and modification of organization-defined information on organization-defined information system components.

## Control guidance

Selection of cryptographic mechanisms is based on the need to protect the confidentiality and integrity of organizational information. The strength of mechanism is commensurate with the security category and/or classification of the information. This control enhancement applies to significant concentrations of digital media in organizational areas designated for media storage and also to limited quantities of media generally associated with information system components in operational environments (e.g., portable storage devices, mobile devices). Organizations have the flexibility to either encrypt all information on storage devices (i.e., full disk encryption) or encrypt specific data structures (e.g., files, records, or fields). Organizations employing cryptographic mechanisms to protect information at rest also consider cryptographic key management solutions.

______________________________________________________________________

## What is the solution and how is it implemented?

Add control implementation description here for control sc-28.1

### Implementation Status: planned

______________________________________________________________________
