---
x-trestle-evidence:
  named-evidence: location
x-trestle-dependent-on:
  - control-id:
    profile:
reviewed-by:
  - named:
    date:
x-trestle-fedramp-props:
  control-origination:
    - Service provider Corporate
    - Service provider System Specific
    - Service Provider Hybrid (Corporate and System Specific)
    - Configured by Customer (Customer System Specific)
    - Provided by Customer (Customer System Specific)
    - Shared (Service Provider and Customer Responsibility)
    - Inherited from pre-existing FedRAMP Authorization [Enter text here], Date of
      Authorization
  implementation-status:
    - Implemented
    - Partially implemented
    - Planned
    - Alternative implementation
    - Not Applicable
  responsible-roles:
x-trestle-global:
  profile:
    title: FedRAMP Rev 4 Moderate Baseline
    href: trestle://profiles/fedramp_rev4_moderate/profile.json
  sort-id: sc-20
---

# sc-20 - \[System and Communications Protection\] Secure Name / Address Resolution Service (authoritative Source)

## Control Statement

The information system:

- \[a.\] Provides additional data origin authentication and integrity verification artifacts along with the authoritative name resolution data the system returns in response to external name/address resolution queries; and

- \[b.\] Provides the means to indicate the security status of child zones and (if the child supports secure resolution services) to enable verification of a chain of trust among parent and child domains, when operating as part of a distributed, hierarchical namespace.

## Control Objective

Determine if the information system:

- \[SC-20(a)\] provides additional data origin and integrity verification artifacts along with the authoritative name resolution data the system returns in response to external name/address resolution queries;

- \[SC-20(b)\] provides the means to, when operating as part of a distributed, hierarchical namespace:

  - \[SC-20(b)[1]\] indicate the security status of child zones; and
  - \[SC-20(b)[2]\] enable verification of a chain of trust among parent and child domains (if the child supports secure resolution services).

## Control guidance

This control enables external clients including, for example, remote Internet clients, to obtain origin authentication and integrity verification assurances for the host/service name to network address resolution information obtained through the service. Information systems that provide name and address resolution services include, for example, domain name system (DNS) servers. Additional artifacts include, for example, DNS Security (DNSSEC) digital signatures and cryptographic keys. DNS resource records are examples of authoritative data. The means to indicate the security status of child zones includes, for example, the use of delegation signer resource records in the DNS. The DNS security controls reflect (and are referenced from) OMB Memorandum 08-23. Information systems that use technologies other than the DNS to map between host/service names and network addresses provide other means to assure the authenticity and integrity of response data.

______________________________________________________________________

## What is the solution and how is it implemented?

<!-- For implementation status enter one of: implemented, partial, planned, alternative, not-applicable -->

<!-- Note that the list of rules under ### Rules: is read-only and changes will not be captured after assembly to JSON -->

### This System

<!-- Add implementation prose for the main This System component for control: sc-20 -->

#### Implementation Status: planned

______________________________________________________________________
